---
layout: post
title:  "DualBrep: A Dual-Field Continuous Representation for B-rep Modelling"
date:   2026-04-19 13:00:53 +00:00
image: /images/dualbrep.png
categories: research
author: "Pradyumna Reddy"
paper: https://linklings.s3.amazonaws.com/organizations/siggraph/siggraph2026/submissions/stype160/dY7vo-papers_295s2-file1.pdf
website: https://preddy5.github.io/
authors: "Yilin Liu, Pradeep Jayaraman, Pradyumna Reddy, Xiang Xu, Hooman Shayani"
venue: "ACM Siggraph"
---
Boundary Representation (B-rep) remains the de-facto standard in Computer-Aided Design (CAD) due to its analytical precision and editability. However, its heterogeneous nature—combining parametric continuous geometry with discrete topological graphs—poses significant challenges for its deep learning integration. Existing methods typically attempt to directly predict the heterogeneous B-rep graph, often resorting to fixed-size padding or sequential tokenization to handle the varying cardinality of geometric primitives. These discrete approaches struggle with the combinatorial complexity of B-reps, where the discrete topological graph is non-differentiable, preventing end-to-end optimization of geometric watertightness. We introduce DualBrep, a novel continuous representation that unifies B-rep geometry and topology within a fully structured Euclidean domain. DualBrep encodes a CAD model using dual scalar fields: a Signed Distance Function (SDF) to represent the global shape geometry, and an Unsigned Distance Field (UDF) to implicitly encode the topological structure via a Voronoi partitioning of the surface elements. This dual-field formulation inherently guarantees watertightness and provides a differentiable signal for learning valid topological connections. Discretization is subsequently performed by a neural rebuilder that extracts explicit B-rep models—comprising both prismatic and free-form primitives—directly from these continuous fields. We demonstrate that DualBrep serves as a robust, unified backbone for B-rep learning, achieving strong performance in (i) reverse engineering from raw point clouds, (ii) in the wild mesh-to-CAD conversion, and (iii) conditional generative modelling via latent diffusion.
